my name is Tim Murphy I'm a reporter at
Mother Jones magazines Washington bureau
about a month ago I traveled down to
south Louisiana to take a look at the
one of the largest ongoing industrial
disasters you probably haven't heard of
it's a 24 acres sinkhole in the town of
Bayou corne that's caused a evacuation
of 350 residents for a little over a
year the cabin that caused it is still
collapsing leaving Bayou corne residents
wondering if there will ever be an end
in sight so a sinkhole is more or less
what it sounds like the ground opens up
and creates either a pit or in case of
Bayou corne because it's located in what
was already a swamp it creates this kind
of abnormally large and abnormally deep
Lake and what happened here is that for
the first time ever so far as we know
they had a salt cavern collapse from the
side that unlocked this kind of natural
deposit of sweet crude oil and natural
gases and kind of gave them a scene by
which to go up to the surface residents
and the state of Louisiana hold Texas
brine which is leasing the property the
sinkhole appeared on responsible for the
collapse but the company denies
responsibility this is a good example
this is Texas bronze Texas brine company
responsible care good chemistry at work
is that not priceless I guess this
should have been for residents of Bayou
corne I think the biggest fear isn't
that the sinkhole is going to keep
continue to keep on rolling although it
pretty clearly is uh it's really what's
happening with all this gas much of
which is still kind of unexplained by
the state's experts and by the company
really it's not so much the hole in the
land as it is the hole in the community
sort of that entire community has been
torn apart they've destroyed our lives
well if your wife is gone you know a lot
of residents don't even really know
what's going on underneath them I don't
feel formed I don't feel that they're
sharing everything with us
the real lesson of Bayou corne is at any
time something like this happens
regardless of who's at fault the people
who really pay the price or the towns
and then they can go as a consequence of
one small disaster on on Christmas Day
or in the middle of the summer and just
no longer exist